In this tutorial, we'll look at the muzzle flash effects. We will have two separate effects, one for the launcher and
one for the rifle. We do not cover creating effects in Niagara in detail,
because this is a topic for a separate course. I have created an emitter and two niagara systems. Let's go
over their properties. In the base emitter, 4 particles will spawn. In InitialParticles I set the
particle lifetime to 0.2 seconds and also the color, tint of blue. Next, the scale of the particles changes from zero to one during their lifetime,
and I also set the random rotation of the particles. And in the sprite renderer,
I specified the material from the shooter game that they use in the corresponding effect for the Cascade.
The first Niagara system based on this emitter belongs to the launcher.
She just uses it and does not override any properties of this emitter.
The only important point in the emitter state category is that the property loop behavior has the value once.
That is, this system will be played once and then destroyed.
The Niagara rifle system uses the same emitter, but some properties are overridden. The spawn rate is set to 90 particles.
Loop behavior has the Infinite value, that is, this particle system will play indefinitely
until we remove it ourselves. And also I changed the color to a shade of yellow.
Let's switch to C ++ and program the Niagara systems data spawn. The flash handling for the launcher and rifle
will be slightly different. There are no problems with the launcher. We just need to spawn the flash at
the muzzle. The logic for the rifle will be a little more complicated, since our shooting takes place
on a timer. We only need to spawn the Niagaara system once. When we start shooting,
we set the visibility of this system to true, and when we finish, we set it to false.
Let's get started, starting with the logic of the base class. Add forward declaration. I immediately copied the
data of the 2nd class. We need NiagraSystem and NiagaraComponent - a pointer to this class is
returned when the Niagra system spawns. Create a property, change the category to vfx.
This property will set the Niagara muzzle flash system. We name the property MuzzleFX.
Also in the base class we will have a Niagara system spawn function. Let's create it in the protected section so that both of
our classes that inherit from BaseWeapon have access to it.
This function will return a pointer to the Niagara Component. Let's call the function SpawnMuzzleFX.
Let's create the body of the function in the BaseWeapon .cpp file.
And we will include the header files we need.
We need a Niagara functional library and also a Niagara component.
To spawn impact effects, we used the SpawnAtLocation function, and in this situation we need to
use the SapwnAttached function. Thus, the transformation of the Niagara system will
change in accordance with the parent transformation of the component to which we attached it.
The first parameter is a pointer to the Niagara system. We transfer our MuzzleFX effect there.
The second parameter is the component to which we want to connect this Niagara system.
We will attach it to the weapon mesh of our weapon. Next comes the AttachPointName parameter.
In this variable, you can pass the name of our socket and, thus, the transformation of the socket
will be the parent transformation for our system. Next are the parameters
regarding transformation. In both cases, we will specify zero vectors for location and rotation.
The next parameter enum EAttachLocation, in fact, is an analogue of EAttachmentRules. We already
used it when we attached our weapon to the character's mesh. We also select the SnapToTarget value.
And the last parameter is AutoDestroy. Set to true. If the Niagara system is not played endlessly,
then it will be automatically removed from the game world. This spawn function returns a
pointer to the Niagara component, so we can simply return the same value
when exiting the SpawnMuzzleFX function. Finished with a base class. Go to the launcher class.
And all we need to do in this class is to call the SpawnMuzzleFX function, and in the launcher class we are
not interested in the returned pointer to the Niagara component. We have discrete firing from the launcher,
so we shoot once and forget about this effect, and the Niagara system will automatically delete itself
at the end of the animation. Go to the header RifleWeapon, copy the forward declaration of the
Niagara component from BaseWeapon. We insert into the RifleWeapon class. We need a variable in which we will
store the pointer to the Niagara component, since in the rifle class we will only spawn the Niagara system
once. We name the variable MuzzleFXComponent. Also, in the private section, we will create
additional functions that will make our code easier to read. Let's call the first function InitMuzzleFX.
This function will spawn the Niagara system if our pointer is nulltptr and also set the visibility of
our system to true. The second function will be responsible for setting the Visibility of our Niagara system.
Let's call it SetMuzzleFXVisibility and the function will have one parameter that will directly
determine whether to set the visibility to true or false. We create a body for each function.
And we need one NiagaraComponent header file. Copy it from BaseWeapon. Go to the InitMuzzleFX function.
So, at the very beginning, we check: if our pointer to MuzzleFXComponent is zero,
that is, if there has not been a spawn yet, then we must spawn this system and assign the
pointer that the SpawnFXMuzzle function returns to our MuzzleFXComponent.
We will call this function every time the shooting starts. Therefore, the next action
we take in the function is to set the Visibility of this system to true.
We call the function that we have not yet implemented SetMuzzleFXVisibility with the parameter true.
This function is ready. Let's go directly to the function that will be responsible for the visibility of the Niagara system.
To begin with, we check if our pointer is not 0 - MuzzleFXComponent, if it is not 0,
then the first thing we will do is call the Niagara function of the system, which is called SetPaused. In fact, this
function stops or starts the Niagara system, that is, it affects its Tick.
In this function, we must pass the negation of the Visibility value, that is, when Visibility = true, our system
must accept Tick and, accordingly, we must set SetPaused (false) and the second function that
we must call is called SetVisibility. She is directly responsible for whether the
system is rendered or not. As the first argument, we simply pass the Visible parameter.
The second parameter we can specify either true or false. In our case, it makes no difference, because
our component has no other child components. We have implemented 2 functions
we need . Let's add to our code now. Every time we start shooting, we call the InitMuzzleFX function.
The system will be spawned only once. All other calls will simply set
visibility to true. When we finish firing, that is, the StopFire function is called,
we simply set the visibility of our system to false. We are done with the logic in C ++. Let's see how it looks in our game.
The effects I created are located in the Muzzles folder of the VFX directory.
Let's install the appropriate Niagara rifle and launcher systems.
Find property MuzzleFX in the VFX category. The first effect for the launcher.
And the second effect is for the rifle. Compile. We start the game.
We begin to shoot from the rifle. Our effect spawns.
It plays endlessly. If we run, then this system is attached to our weapons. Everything works correctly.
Let's switch to the launcher. We shoot once. The effect also spawns while attached to the muzzle and is immediately removed.